This program generates a GUI for the production of algorithmic music using elementary cellular automata. Such an automaton is one-dimensional, composed of a series of cells that can be on or off - alive or dead. Such a sequence can be modeled particularly well using bits, which take the values 1 for alive and 0 for dead. Thus the state of a cellular automaton at any time can be expressed as a number in binary. The automaton can take many different values over time, where the passage of time is a progression of generations. Each generation is constructed from the previous one with respect to a ruleset. This ruleset is also a binary number, which converted to base 10 is referred to as Wolfram code, after the physicist Stephen Wolfram. 

Consider a first generation of 0111, and a ruleset of 01001000 (every ruleset is 8-bit). Each bit in the current generation has a 'neighborhood' together with the bit immediately to its right and the bit to its immediate left. For example, the second bit from the right in our first generation has neighborhood 111, which corresponds to the decimal number 7. The seventh bit in the ruleset is 1. Thus in the next generation, the second bit from the right will be 1. To ensure that the edge bits have a neighborhood of three, the generation is padded with zeros; the first one, for example, becomes 001110. 

To use this tool, you must specify a ruleset and a first generation. Write both in base 10. You must also decide how many generations of the automaton you will sonify, as well as how many generations at a time you want to listen to. This number of generations is the number of streams to which notes corresponding to 0 and 1-valued bits will be appended. To listen to four generations at once for a total number of 16 generations, for example, will produce music with a quarter of the duration of the music resulting from one generation at a time, appended to a single stream. You must also choose what notes to assign to your 0's and 1's. For the 0's there are two options: the 1-frequency at a lower volume, or a rest. For the 1's, the frequency is dependent on the generation, and will be determined according to a scale that you choose. The idea is that you will pick minimum and maximum frequencies for your first and last generations, and the frequencies for the generations in between will be spaced according to your choice of scale.
